docs/setup_env.rst, before:

===========================================================
LibreOffice python development environment setup guidelines
===========================================================

System Setup
============

At the time of this writting, Libre Office only provides python3 system packages, not pip packages.

Installing on Ubuntu

APT packages
------------

.. code::

    $ sudo apt-get install libreoffice python3 libreoffice-script-provider-python python3-uno uno-libs-private libuno-salhelpergcc3-3 libuno-sal3 libuno-purpenvhelpergcc3-3 libuno-cppuhelpergcc3-3 libuno-cppu3

Virtual Environment
===================

Virtual Environment for this project uses conda.

.. code::

    $ conda env create --prefix ./env -f environment.yml

oootmpl
=======

A link from src dir to ./env/.../site-packages/oootmpl is required.

Because templates are compile by cheetah this link is neessary for templates
to have accesss to src modules.

Run the following command to create link after Virtual environment is setup.

.. code::

    $ python app_cmd/run_link_src.py --add

UNO
===


No uno pip
----------

Uno is required to compile templates of this project.

As stated there is no uno pip install. However uno is required for this project.

uno in env
----------

There are a couple of ways to setup uno for this project after uno has been install on system.

Manual
++++++

1. Copy uno file into env subfolder.

    .. code::

        $ cp '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py' env/lib/python3.10/site-packages/uno.py

2. Link uno file into env subfolder.

    .. code::

        $ ln -s '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py' env/lib/python3.10/site-packages/uno.py

Linking helps future proof incase of updates.

Automatic
+++++++++

Script ``app_cmd/run_uno_lnk.py`` can be used to create these links.

    .. code::

        $ python app_cmd/run_uno_lnk.py

Commit message:

remove requirement link to site-packages

docs/setup_env.rst, after:

===========================================================
LibreOffice python development environment setup guidelines
===========================================================

Limitations
===========

Currently this project will only work on linux. However, the output from this project is cross platform.

System Setup
============

At the time of this writting, Libre Office only provides python3 system packages, not pip packages.

Installing on Ubuntu

APT packages
------------

.. code::

    $ sudo apt-get install libreoffice python3 libreoffice-script-provider-python python3-uno uno-libs-private libuno-salhelpergcc3-3 libuno-sal3 libuno-purpenvhelpergcc3-3 libuno-cppuhelpergcc3-3 libuno-cppu3

Virtual Environment
===================

Virtual Environment for this project uses conda.

.. code::

    $ conda env create --prefix ./env -f environment.yml

UNO
===


No uno pip
----------

Uno is required to compile templates of this project.

As stated there is no uno pip install. However uno is required for this project.

uno in env
----------

There are a couple of ways to setup uno for this project after uno has been install on system.

Manual
++++++

1. Copy uno file into env subfolder.

    .. code::

        $ cp '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py' env/lib/python3.10/site-packages/uno.py

2. Link uno file into env subfolder.

    .. code::

        $ ln -s '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py' env/lib/python3.10/site-packages/uno.py

Linking helps future proof incase of updates.

Automatic
+++++++++

Script ``app_cmd/run_uno_lnk.py`` can be used to create these links.

    .. code::

        $ python app_cmd/run_uno_lnk.py
